README.md, before:

# lartpc_mlreco3d Tutorials

This is a collection of Jupyter notebooks and tutorials to get you up to speed on [`lartpc_mlreco3d`](https://github.com/DeepLearnPhysics/lartpc_mlreco3d).

## Install
Install Jupyter Book to contribute to the repository (see below how to contribute). 

```bash
$ pip install -U jupyter-book 
```

## Contributing

### Writing content
Create your Markdown files / Jupyter notebooks. Reference them in the TOC (`_toc.yml`). 
See https://jupyterbook.org/intro.html for more guidance on how to write your pages.

For better version control, it is preferred that you write your Jupyter notebook using 
Markdown. A Jupyter notebook written entirely in Markdown needs a YAML frontmatter and looks like this:

````md
---
jupytext:
  cell_metadata_filter: -all
  formats: md:myst
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.13
    jupytext_version: 1.10.3
kernelspec:
  display_name: Python 3
  language: python
  name: python3
execution:
  timeout: 240
---

# Your title

```{code-cell}
code that will be executed like a Jupyter notebook cell
```

````

See https://jupyterbook.org/file-types/myst-notebooks.html for more information.

### Getting the weight files and dataset to build the tutorials
The tutorials rely on some weight files and small datasets. You can download them all by running the `setup.sh` script
from the root of the repository:

```bash
$ source setup.sh (optional: path/to/your/folder)
```

Files will be downloaded either from SDF (if you have access)
or Google Drive and stored by default in the folder `lartpc_mlreco3d_tutorials/book/data`.
If you provide a custom path, the script will export that path in the environment variable `DATA_DIR`
which is used by the tutorials.

### Building
Every time you want to build:

```bash
$ jupyter-book build book
```

You can now open the file `_build/html/index.html` to preview your changes.

## Updating Github Pages

If you have the right access permissions and the package `ghp-import` installed:
```bash
$ pip install -U ghp-import
```

then you can easily update the Github Pages after building:

```bash
$ ghp-import -n -p -f book/_build/html
```

## Built with
Using the awesome [Jupyter Book](https://jupyterbook.org/) and [Binder](https://mybinder.readthedocs.io/). Hosted on Github Pages.

Commit message:

Update readme for how to run local html, inlcude anlaysis tools and related tutorial

README.md, after:

# lartpc_mlreco3d Tutorials

This is a collection of Jupyter notebooks and tutorials to get you up to speed on [`lartpc_mlreco3d`](https://github.com/DeepLearnPhysics/lartpc_mlreco3d). You can view the tutorial page [here](https://deeplearnphysics.org/lartpc_mlreco3d_tutorials/).

## Install
Install Jupyter Book to contribute to the repository (see below how to contribute). 

```bash
$ pip install -U jupyter-book 
```

## Contributing

### Writing content
Create your Markdown files / Jupyter notebooks. Reference them in the TOC (`_toc.yml`). 
See https://jupyterbook.org/intro.html for more guidance on how to write your pages.

For better version control, it is preferred that you write your Jupyter notebook using 
Markdown. A Jupyter notebook written entirely in Markdown needs a YAML frontmatter and looks like this:

````md
---
jupytext:
  cell_metadata_filter: -all
  formats: md:myst
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.13
    jupytext_version: 1.10.3
kernelspec:
  display_name: Python 3
  language: python
  name: python3
execution:
  timeout: 240
---

# Your title

```{code-cell}
code that will be executed like a Jupyter notebook cell
```

````

See https://jupyterbook.org/file-types/myst-notebooks.html for more information.

### Getting the weight files and dataset to build the tutorials
The tutorials rely on some weight files and small datasets. You can download them all by running the `setup.sh` script
from the root of the repository:

```bash
$ source setup.sh (optional: path/to/your/folder)
```

Files will be downloaded from SDF and stored by default in the folder `lartpc_mlreco3d_tutorials/book/data`. As such, to view the tutorials properly you need access to the SLAC SDF file system. One way to do this is to mount the remote filesystem to your local machine using [sshfs](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SSHFS):

```bash
$ sshfs -o reconnect,ServerAliveInterval=15,ServerAliveCountMax=3 $USERNAME@sdf-login01.slac.stanford.edu:$PATH_TO_TUTORIAL $PATH_TO_TUTORIAL_LOCAL
```
where:
 * `$USERNAME`: your SLAC `sdf` login ID. 
 * `$PATH_TO_TUTORIAL`: path to the `lartpc_mlreco3d_tutorials` folder inside SDF.
 * `$PATH_TO_TUTORIAL_LOCAL`: your desired path to the tutorial folder, in your local machine. 

For example, after git cloning this repository in `/sdf/group/neutrino/koh0207/lartpc_mlreco3d_tutorials`, I can make a folder `~/lartpc_mlreco3d_tutorials` in my local Ubuntu, and mount the tutorials folder in SDF to this folder as follows:
```bash
sshfs -o reconnect,ServerAliveInterval=15,ServerAliveCountMax=3 koh0207@sdf-login01.slac.stanford.edu:/sdf/group/neutrino/koh0207/lartpc_mlreco3d_tutorials ~/lartpc_mlreco3d_tutorials
```
This allows one to view files via the file browser of your local machine. 

If you provide a custom path, the script will export that path in the environment variable `DATA_DIR`
which is used by the tutorials.

### Building
Every time you want to build:

```bash
$ jupyter-book build book
```

### Previewing Changes

You can now open the file `_build/html/index.html` to preview your changes.

## Updating Github Pages

If you have the right access permissions and the package `ghp-import` installed:
```bash
$ pip install -U ghp-import
```

then you can easily update the Github Pages after building:

```bash
$ ghp-import -n -p -f book/_build/html
```

## Built with
Using the awesome [Jupyter Book](https://jupyterbook.org/) and [Binder](https://mybinder.readthedocs.io/). Hosted on Github Pages.
